X-Sender: amarr@pop.interchange.ubc.ca
Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 18:17:18 -0800
To: lk37n@udcf.gla.ac.uk, smith@zoology.ubc.ca, wmh6@cornell.edu, arcese@interchange.ubc.ca, serunyan@interchange.ubc.ca, wilsonwa@interchange.ubc.ca
From: Amy Marr <amarr@interchange.ubc.ca>
Subject: OFFICIAL survival file for book
Mime-Version: 1.0

Hi everyone,
Attached is the survival file for the book and 2002 in general. 
This is the official survival file for the book. Do not use any other file please!!!!!! 

How is this file different from one you might have recently received?

1. Birds killed in experiments are censored as per Lukas' recent suggestion (cens=1)

2. The file has a column that allows you to identify birds in feeding experiments in a column called expt.  If expt=0 then not fed.  If expt=3 then fed by Jamie, expt=4.1 or 4.2 then fed by Peter, expt=6 then fed by Wes. I ran an analysis that showed that ONLY Peter's experiment actually affected survival but I assume we are STILL removing all fed and neighbor birds for all feeding experiments! Speak now if you want to remove only Peter's data!!!

File has 4950 lines of data and one line of titles.  It is tab-delimited.
SAS code for input below:
DATA survival;  INFILE 'srv2002_book.txt' FIRSTOBS=2 DLM='09'x DSD MISSOVER;  INPUT year combo age sex surv cens is ninecode expt;


Notes on construction of the survival file

1. Birds get a line with their age for every year of their life.

2. Birds are in the dataset if they were seen with two independent sightings or a very confident sighting (caught in a net, there were notes that bands double checked, or bird movement mapped by a skilled observer) after April 1st of a given year.  This excludes the weird situation that occassionally a bird seems to be invented once that was not alive for many years.

3. Floater males and unmated males are included in this dataset. (Not necessarily true in Lukas survival files.)

4. Females are included whether or not they bred in a year.

5. Birds get a line at age zero if their band combination was seen at or after day 24. Immigrants do not get a line at age zero, all other birds do.

6. Sex = 0 if the bird is age 0, even if the sex is later discovered.

7. Immigrant age is assumed to be 1 in the first year they are seen on the island.


Survival file columns contain the following information:

year comb	bird combination, a relict column, only used now to interact with 
old files

age  		0=sighted independent from parental care, 1=age 1, etc.

sex 		0=sex unknown, all independent juveniles get a zero, 1=female, 2=male

surv 		survived to next year (1=yes, 0=no)

cens 		censor bird in survival analyses (experiments, died in net, etc)
		1. Birds killed in experiments are censored as per Lukas' recent suggestion (cens=1)

is		immigrant status, 1=immigrant, 0=resident-hatched

ninecode	nine digit bird combination, the one you should use please!

expt		experiment

notes		notes about experiment or other notes



Amy